(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai - Go Unlimited to remove this message)

(0:01 - 0:11)
Okay, let's start. The power of photography is more than just documentation. It's a form of self-expression.

(0:12 - 0:22)
It really has a way of creating perceptions and also forming perspectives. I believe in the power of the image can implement change. I'm Ida Mulune, I'm a change maker.

(0:24 - 0:46)
The surreal worlds created by award-winning photographer Ida Mulune evoke deep conversations about African life. From her studio in Abidjan, Ida carefully crafts images as her way to unfold the history of the continent. The fact that, you know, in Africa, we, culture is part of our life.

(0:47 - 1:09)
You know, creativity is part of our life. And even, you know, a lot of my work, I source a lot of inspiration looking at traditional art and traditional cultures because I find that that is more advanced. You know, sometimes, you know, when you read text about the history of art and what have you, you know, they categorize things from Africa as being primitive. 

It's not primitive. It's actually very sophisticated. It's a sophisticated system.

(1:09 - 1:25)
Hence, there's a reason why Picasso lifted and took so much inspiration from Africa. Her journey into photography started in Alberta, Canada, when she was 16 years old. Really, my love and passion for photography started from the first print.

(1:26 - 1:48)
I started photography in photojournalism, and the reason why I also teach photojournalism is because I believe that's the basis of understanding the visual language. We have to also understand how do we use the visual language to tell a very specific story. And at some point, you know, what ended up happening is that I knew that photojournalism was not going to be enough for the things that I wanted to speak on, and this is how I entered into the fine art world.

(1:48 - 2:13)
As she transitioned to fine arts, the urge to change the world's negative perceptions about Africa got stronger. The images that I saw of my country, Ethiopia, was always showcasing things that didn't really match the stories that my mother was telling me. When we look at images, especially in mass media, in print media, often when there's a representation of the continent, it's always a one-sided story.

(2:13 - 2:53)
So at a very early age, you know, my first exhibition was at the age of 19, and I had a very specific mission on how do we reimagine what does Africa look like, what is the culture, you know, what is the contemporary story of the continent? And this has been one of the reasons that, you know, I moved back to Ethiopia, and even being here in West Africa has really been to shift that perception and to develop talent. Fast forward to 2010, IDA created the Addis Photo Fair, the first international photography festival in East Africa. Now, she hopes to replicate the success of the critically acclaimed Biennale this time in West Africa.

(2:55 - 3:25)
I remember when I first started the festival, we only had about, I think, five photographers from Ethiopia that exhibited, along with photographers from across the world. And the last edition of 2018, we had around 36 photographers that were exhibited. But the key thing for me is that the students that I have taught, you know, for them to enter, to be able to shoot for New York Times, to be able to shoot for Washington Post or AP or any of these wire services, and I do believe that, you know, we are sort of forming into this path of, you know, what is our aesthetic.

(3:26 - 3:55)
And, you know, when you look at images from East Africa, North, South, everybody has their own unique style of how they interpret and how they're also creating works that expresses what is their own realities. Those realities are coming to the light at the Museum of Culture, Contemporary and Traditional Arts in the Abobo Arts District in Cote d'Ivoire. Launched in 2022, the Africa Photo Fair doubles up as an online platform for photographers from around the world.

(3:56 - 4:12)
It's been really a fulfilling experience because the interaction, especially of the youth, has been very fascinating. They engage with the work, they take photos in front of the work, they actually take notes, you know, they're reading. And this is really, for me, the ultimate goal of creativity is to have an impact on the future generation.

(4:13 - 4:33)
I think we have to make every effort as artists, not only to fantasize about going to Europe or to the U.S., but to really work within countries that are our neighbors, even really going across different parts of the continent, because there's so much we can learn as well, not only about other cultures, but also about ourselves and how we relate to different spaces and different cultures.

(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai - Go Unlimited to remove this message)