(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai - Go Unlimited to remove this message)

(0:00 - 0:18)
Away from the front lines, an army of artists begin the process of mending this nation's grief. Gently repairing the hurt brought on by war. At Lviv's National Opera, everyone has a part to play.

(0:19 - 0:46)
Tonight's Giselle Ballet will be the first full performance since the theatre closed its doors almost two months ago. As musicians dust off their instruments and as the audience starts to trickle in, for us coming to the theatre is returning to a small part of our life which was there before the war. We are internally displaced from Kiev, says Julia Dimitrieva.

(0:47 - 1:06)
We had to come to Lviv while there are hostilities. The artistic director tells me why they decided to open now. We understand that light must defeat darkness, that life must defeat death and the mission of the theatre is to assert this.

(1:08 - 1:41)
But the reminders of war are never too far away. Dear guests, our event will be suspended in case of an air raid alert. Only 300 seats were allowed to be sold tonight, the capacity of the Opera's bomb shelter. 

Still, it's sold out. It's only minutes now until that curtain opens and you can feel the tension because this performance is extra special. For a few hours, nothing else matters.

(1:44 - 2:06)
As the audience and I are transported to a world of love and beauty. Playing Giselle tonight is 21-year-old Irina. It feels great, she tells me, back in her dressing room because dancing helps to distract from what's happening.

(2:10 - 2:25)
Like many here, her life is a journey. Her life has been shaken by war and the horrors of Bucza, where mass graves were recently found. My mum and my grandmother and her sister survived occupation in Bucza, she tells me.

(2:26 - 2:46)
Now she's in safety in Poland, restoring her nerves. Doreena finds solace on this stage, throwing herself behind her character. All the negative emotions which accumulate for a long time flow out, she tells me.

(2:48 - 3:03)
A cathartic performance for both those on and off stage. Offering comfort to those who need it most. In the hope they can lift, if only just briefly, this nation's aching soul.

(3:04 - 3:07)
Isa Soares, CNN, Lviv, Ukraine.

(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai - Go Unlimited to remove this message)